<!-- image -->

Installation Instructions

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

(Catalog Numbers 1746-NI16I and 1746-NI16V)

Inside

Important User Information .................................................................... 2

For More Information ................................................................................3

Hazardous Location Considerations ....................................................... 4

Environnements dangereux .................................................................... 4

Electrostatic Damage.............................................................................. 5

1746-NI16 Power Requirements............................................................. 5

Module Location in Chassis.................................................................... 6

Heat and Noise Considerations .............................................................. 6

Module Installation and Removal........................................................... 7

Terminal Wiring....................................................................................... 9

Input Devices ........................................................................................ 13

Transducer Source Impedance.............................................................. 13

Specifications ....................................................................................... 15

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

@JO#VTQQE

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

2

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Important User Information

Because of the variety of uses for the products described in this publication, those responsible for the application and use of this control equipment must satisfy

themselves that all necessary steps have been taken to assure that each application and use meets all performance and safety requirements, including any applicable

laws, regulations, codes and standards.

The illustrations, charts, sample programs and layout examples shown in this guide

## are intended solely for purposes of example. Since there are many variables and

requirements associated with any particular installation, Allen-Bradley does not assume responsibility or liability (to include intellectual property liability) for actual use based upon the examples shown in this publication. Allen-Bradley publication SGI-1.1, Safety Guidelines for the Application, Installation and Maintenance of Solid-State Control (available from your local Allen-Bradley office), describes some important differences between solid-state equipment and electromechanical devices that should be taken into consideration when applying products such as those described in this publication. Reproduction of the contents of this copyrighted publication, in whole or part, without written permission of Rockwell Automation, is prohibited.

! ATTENTION Identifies information about practices or circumstances that can lead to personal injury or death, property damage, or economic loss.

Attention statements help you to:

· identify a hazard

· avoid the hazard · recognize the consequences

IMPORTANT

Identifies information that is critical for successful application and understanding of the product.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

".

For More Information

For detailed information on planning and installing your system, see the following publications:

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Number

Industrial Automation Wiring and Grounding Guidelines 1770-4.1

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules User Manual 1746-UM001A-US-P

SLC 500™ Modular Hardware Style Operation and Installation Manual 1747-6.2 SLC 500™ Fixed Hardware Style Operation and Installation Manual 1747-6.21

contacting your local distributor or Rockwell Automation representative visiting www.theautomationbookstore.com and placing your order

| If you would like a manual, you can:                                                   |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| • download a free electronic version from the internet: www.theautomationbookstore.com |
| • purchase a printed manual by:                                                        |
| –                                                                                      |
| –                                                                                      |

–

calling 1.800.963.9548 (USA/Canada)

or

001.330.725.1574 (Outside USA/Canada)

@JO#VTQQE

3

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

4

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Hazardous Location Considerations

This equipment is suitable for use in Class I, Division 2, Groups A, B, C, D or non-hazardous locations only. The following ATTENTION statement applies to

use in hazardous locations.

WARNING

EXPLOSION HAZARD

· Substitution of components may impair suitability for Class I,

## Division 2.

! · Do not replace components or disconnect equipment unless power has been switched off.

· Do not connect or disconnect components unless power has been switched off.

- This product must be installed in an enclosure.
- Environnements dangereux
- Cet équipement est conçu pour être utilisé dans des environnements de Classe 1, Division 2, Groupes A, B, C, D ou non dangereux. La mise en garde suivante

s'applique à une utilisation dans des environnements dangereux.

MISE EN GARDE

## !

DANGER D'EXPLOSION

· La substitution de composants peut rendre cet équipement impropre à une utilisation en environnement de Classe 1,

Division 2.

· Ne pas remplacer de composants ou déconnecter l'équipement sans s'être assuré que l'alimentation est coupée.

· Ne pas connecter ou déconnecter des composants sans s'être assuré que l'alimentation est coupée.

- Ce produit doit être installé dans une armoire.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

".

<!-- image -->

Electrostatic Damage

Electrostatic discharge can damage semiconductor devices inside this module if you touch backplane connector pins. Guard against electrostatic damage by observing

the following precautions.

ATTENTION

Electrostatic discharge can degrade performance or cause permanent damage. Handle the module as stated below.

· Wear an approved wrist strap grounding device when

! handling the module. · Touch a grounded object to rid yourself of electrostatic charge before handling the module.

· Handle the module from the front, away from the backplane connector. Do not touch backplane connector pins.

- Keep the module in its static-shield bag when not in use, or during shipment.
- 1746-NI16 Power Requirements
- The 1746-NI16 module receives its power through the SLC 500 chassis backplane

from the fixed or modular +5V dc/+24V dc chassis power supply. The +5V dc

- backplane supply powers the SLC circuitry and the +24V dc backplane supply powers the module analog circuitry. The maximum current drawn by the module is

shown in the table below.

5V dc Amps 24V dc Amps

125 mA 75 mA

When you are using a modular system configuration, add the values shown in the table above to the requirements of all other modules in the SLC chassis to prevent overloading the chassis power supply.

@JO#VTQQE

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

5

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

6

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Module Location in Chassis

Modular Chassis Considerations

Place your 1746-NI16 module in any slot of an SLC 500 modular, or modular expansion chassis, except for the extreme left slot (slot 0) in the first chassis. This slot

is reserved for the processor or adapter modules.

Operating Temperature Range +0

°

C to +60

°

C (+32

°

F to +140

Fixed Expansion Chassis Considerations

IMPORTANT The 2-slot, SLC 500 fixed I/O expansion chassis (1746-A2) supports only specific combinations of modules. If you are using the 1746-NI16 module in a 2-slot expansion chassis with another

SLC I/O or communication module, refer to the 1746-NI16 user manual to determine whether the combination can be supported.

Heat and Noise Considerations

Most applications require installation in an industrial enclosure to reduce the effects of electrical interference. Analog inputs are highly susceptible to electrical noise. Electrical noise coupled to the analog inputs reduces the performance (accuracy) of the module.

Group your modules to minimize adverse effects from radiated electrical noise and

## heat. Consider the following conditions when selecting a slot for the analog input module. Position the module:

· in a slot away from sources of electrical noise such as hard-contact switches, relays, and AC motor drives · away from modules which generate significant radiated heat, such as the 32-point

I/O module (series C or earlier) In addition, route shielded twisted-7pair analog input wiring away from any high-voltage I/O wiring.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

°

F)

".

<!-- image -->

SLOT

## · MODULE

ATTENTION Remove power before removing or inserting this module. When you remove or insert a module with power applied, an electrical arc may occur. An electrical arc can cause personal injury or property damage by:

· sending an erroneous signal to your system's field devices, causing unintended machine motion

<!-- image -->

· causing an explosion in a hazardous environment

Electrical arcing causes excessive wear to contacts on both the module and its mating connector. Worn contacts may create electrical resistance.

- Terminal Block Removal

1

.

<!-- image -->

@JO#VTQQE

Loosen the two terminal block release screws.

Terminal Block

Release Screws

Grasp the terminal block at the top and bottom and pull outward and down.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

RACK

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Module Installation and Removal

When installing the module in a chassis, it is not necessary to remove the terminal block from the module. However, if the terminal block is removed, use the write-on

label (shown below) located on the side of the terminal block to identify the module location and type.

7

8

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Module Installation Procedure

1

## 3

.

.

<!-- image -->

Align the circuit board of the analog input module with the card guides located at the top and bottom of the chassis.

Slide the module into the chassis until both top and bottom retaining clips are secured. Apply firm even pressure on the module to attach it to its backplane

connector. Never force the module into the slot.

Cover all unused slots with the Card Slot Filler, Catalog Number 1746-N2.

- Top and Bottom Module Release(s)

Press the releases at the top and bottom of the module and slide the module out

Cover all unused slots with the Card Slot Filler, Catalog Number 1746-N2.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

".

<!-- image -->

Terminal Wiring

The 1746-NI16 module contains an 18-position, removable terminal block. The terminal pin-out is shown below.

ATTENTION

Disconnect power to the SLC before attempting to install, remove, or wire the removable terminal wiring block.

!

To avoid cracking the removable terminal block, alternate the removal of the slotted terminal block release screws.

Terminal Block

(Terminal Block Spare Part Catalog Number 1746-RT25G)

Channel 0 Channel 2

Channel 4

Channel 6

Analog Com

Maximum Torque = 0.7 to 0.9 Nm (6 to 8 in-lbs.)

Pre-wired Cables and Terminal Blocks

The following 1492 cables and terminal blocks are available to assist in wiring the

1492-ACAB005A46, 0.5m (1.6 ft.

1492-ACAB010A46, 1.0 m (3.3 ft.)

<!-- image -->

1492-ACAB025A46, 2.5 m (8.2 ft.)

1492-ACAB050A46, 5.0 m (16.4 ft.)

1492-AIFM8-3

Cables

Allen-Bradley User Terminal

Blocks 1492-AIFM16-F-3

| @JO#VTQQE   |
|---|

Channel 1

Channel 3

Channel 5

Channel 7

Analog Com

Channel 9

Channel 11

Channel 13

Channel 15

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

9

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

10

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Wiring Single-Ended Inputs

The diagram below shows typical wiring for the 1746-NI16V module.

(2)

(2)

(2)

+

Channel 0

Voltage

## Transmitter Channel 2

-

+

-Voltage Transmitter

<!-- image -->

IN0

IN2

IN4

IN6

Analog

Com

IN8

IN10

IN12

IN14

IN1

IN3

IN5

IN7

Analog

Com

IN9

IN11

IN13

IN15

(1)

(3)

(3)

(3)

(3)

(1) There are two common terminals for all of the 16 voltage inputs. These two analog common terminals are

(4) If separate shielded cables are used for each analog input channel, interposing terminal blocks are needed to terminate up to 16 common wires. Then 1 to 4 common wires should be wired from the interposing

(5) The module does not provide loop power for analog inputs. Use a power supply that matches the transmitter

- specifications. (6) More than one power supply can be used if all supplies are class 2.
- NOTE Although the above diagram has 12 unused inputs, only 4
- channels are shown connected to the Analog Com as an example.
- Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

+

+

+

+

-

(1)

".

Wiring Single-Ended Inputs

The diagram below shows typical wiring for the 1746-NI16I module.

Channel 0

2-wire current

Transmitter

## Channel 2

2-wire current

+

+

-Transmitter

Channel 4

(2)

(2)

<!-- image -->

IN1

IN3

IN5

IN7

Analog

Com

IN9

IN11

IN13

IN15

(1)

(3)

(3)

(3)

(3)

(1) There are two common terminals for all of the 16 current inputs. These two analog common terminals are

(4) If separate shielded cables are used for each analog input channel, interposing terminal blocks are needed to terminate up to 16 common wires. Then 1 to 4 common wires should be wired from the interposing

(5) The module does not provide loop power for analog inputs. Use a power supply that matches the transmitter

- specifications. (6) More than one power supply can be used if all supplies are class 2.
- NOTE Although the above diagram has 12 unused inputs, only 4
- channels are shown connected to the Analog Com as an example.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

-

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

@JO#VTQQE

+

+

+

+

-

(1)

IN0

IN2

IN4

IN6

Analog

Com

IN8

IN10

IN12

IN14

11

<!-- image -->

12

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Wiring Guidelines

ATTENTION

To prevent shock hazard, care should be taken when wiring the module to analog signal sources. Before wiring any analog module,

disconnect power from the SLC 500 system and from any other source to the analog module.

!

Follow the guidelines below when planning your system wiring.

· To limit noise, keep signal wires as far away as possible from power and load lines. · To ensure proper operation and high immunity to electrical noise, always use Belden™ 8761 (shielded, twisted pair) or equivalent wire.

· Connect the shield drain wire to the earth ground of the chassis.

· Tighten terminal screws using a standard or cross-head screwdriver. Each screw

- should be turned tight enough to immobilize the wire's end. Excessive tightening

can strip the terminal screw. The torque applied to each screw should not exceed

- 0.7 to 0.9 Nm (6 to 8 in-lb) for each terminal.

· Follow system grounding and wiring guidelines found in your SLC 500 Modular

- Hardware Style Installation and Operation Manual, publication 1747-6.2.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

".

Input Devices

Transducer Source Impedance

If the source impedance of the input device and associated cabling is too high, it will affect the accuracy of the channel data word. Source impedance of 2000 ohms will

produce up to 0.01% of module error over and above the specified accuracy of the module.

You can compensate for device impedance error by implementing the following

## equation in your ladder program:

VS VS Vm Vmeasured (R s R in R in Vs = input device voltage

)

where: Rs = input device impedance Rin = 1746-NI16 input impedance

(See Specifications on page 17)

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

@JO#VTQQE

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

13

<!-- image -->

14

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Wiring Input Devices to the 1746-NI16

After the analog input module is properly installed in the chassis, follow the wiring procedure below using Belden 8761 cable.

ATTENTION

## !

Signal Wire

<!-- image -->

Signal Wire

Foil Shield

(Twist the drain wire and the foil shield together and connect to earth ground or to the chassis

At each end of the cable, strip some casing to expose the individual wires.

Trim the signal wires to 50 mm (2 inch) lengths. Strip about 5 mm

(3/16 inch) of insulation away to expose the end of the wire.

3 . At one end of the cable, twist the drain wire and foil shield together.

4 .

At the other end of the cable, cut the drain wire and foil shield back to the cable.

5

.

.

Connect the signal wires to the 1746-NI16 terminal block or interposing

- terminal block.
- 6 . Connect the shield drain wire to chassis ground. 7

Connect the other end of the cable to the voltage or current transmitter terminals.

.

- 8 Repeat steps 1 through 7 for each channel on the module.
- Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

Care should be taken to avoid connecting a voltage source to a current input module. Improper module operation or damage to

the voltage source can occur.

Cable

(Cut foil shield and drain wire.)

".

Specifications

Electrical Specifications

Description Specification

Backplane Current Consumption 125 mA at 5V dc

75 mA at 24V dc

Backplane Power Consumption 2.425W maximum (0.625W at 5V dc, 1.8W at 24V dc)

Number of Channels 16 (backplane isolated)

I/O Chassis Location Any I/O module slot except slot 0

Input Filtering Low-pass digital filter with programmable filter

Greater than or equal to 75 dB at DC

Greater than or equal to 100 dB at 50/60 Hz

Input Filter Frequencies 6 Hz, 10 Hz, 20 Hz, 40 Hz, 60 Hz, 80 Hz, 100 Hz, 250 Hz

Common-Mode Voltage Range ±10.25V relative to analog common terminal

(20.5V maximum between any two signal input terminals)

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

| A/D Conversion Method Sigma - Delta            |
|------------------------------------------------|
| Normal Mode Rejection >80 dB at 50/60 Hz       |
| (between [+] input and [–] input) >75 dB at dc |
| Common Mode Rejection                          |
| (between inputs and chassis                    |
| ground)                                        |
| Isolation 500V ac isolation for 1 second       |

@JO#VTQQE

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

15

16

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Physical Specifications

Description Specification

LED Indicators 5 green status indicators one for each group of 4 channels and one for module status

Module ID Code Class 1 Class 3

NI16V 3505 10406

NI16I 3504 10403

NI16V Voltage Source (with less than 10Ω impedance): 1250Ω

maximum loop impedance, for &lt;1LSB error

NI16I Current Source (transmitter properly wired to its power supply):

249Ω maximum loop impedance, to meet common-mode

| Recommended Cable Belden #8761 or equivalent                                                                                       | Recommended Cable Belden #8761 or equivalent                                                                                       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Maximum Wire Size Two 14 AWG wires per terminal Maximum Cable                                                                      | Maximum Wire Size Two 14 AWG wires per terminal Maximum Cable                                                                      |
| Impedance                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    | voltage requirements                                                                                                               |
| Terminal Block Removable, Allen-Bradley spare part                                                                                 | Terminal Block Removable, Allen-Bradley spare part                                                                                 |
| Catalog Number 1746-RT25G                                                                                                          | Catalog Number 1746-RT25G                                                                                                          |
| Allen-Bradley Prewired Cables 1492-ACAB005A46, 0.5m (1.6 ft.) 1492-ACAB010A46, 1.0 m (3.3 ft.)                                     | Allen-Bradley Prewired Cables 1492-ACAB005A46, 0.5m (1.6 ft.) 1492-ACAB010A46, 1.0 m (3.3 ft.)                                     |
| 1492-ACAB025A46, 2.5 m (8.2 ft.) 1492-ACAB050A46, 5.0 m (16.4 ft.) Allen-Bradley User Terminal Blocks 1492-AIFM8-3 1492-AIFM16-F-3 | 1492-ACAB025A46, 2.5 m (8.2 ft.) 1492-ACAB050A46, 5.0 m (16.4 ft.) Allen-Bradley User Terminal Blocks 1492-AIFM8-3 1492-AIFM16-F-3 |
| Environmental Specifications Description Specification                                                                             | Environmental Specifications Description Specification                                                                             |
| Operating Temperature +0 C to +60 C (+32 F to +140 F) Storage Temperature  -40 ° C to +85 ° C (-40 ° F to +185 ° F)                | Operating Temperature +0 C to +60 C (+32 F to +140 F) Storage Temperature  -40 ° C to +85 ° C (-40 ° F to +185 ° F)                |

Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (without condensation)

## Agency Certification UL listed

C-UL approved

Class I Division 2 Hazardous Environment Groups A, B, C, D

".

| Hazardous Environment        |
|------------------------------|
| Classification               |
| Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P |
| @JO#VTQQE                              |

Input Specifications

Description Specification

Type of Input (Selectable) NI16V ±10V dc, 1 to 5V, 0 to 5V, or 0 to 10V

NI16I ±20 mA, 4 to 20 mA, 0 to 1 mA, 0 to 20 mA

Type of Data (Selectable) Engineering Units (1 mV/step or 1 µA/step)

Scaled-for-PID (0 to +16,383 range)

Proportional Counts (-32,768 to +32,767 range)

Proportional Counts (User Defined Range, Class 3 only)

±30V between any two signal terminals

±8V between any two signal terminals

±30 mA (Between analog com and any input terminal)

NI16V Voltage input types (±10V dc, 1 to 5V dc, 0 to 5V dc, 0 to

NI16I Current input types (0 to 20 mA, 4 to 20 mA, 0 to 1mA

,

Depends on filter selected. Refer to the 1746-NI16 User Manual, publication 1746-UM001A-US-P.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

".

| 1746-NI4 Data Format                                                                                                        |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Input Impedance NI16V 20 MΩ                                                                                                 |
| NI16I 249 Ω Maximum Voltage Input without damage NI16V  Maximum Voltage Input without damage NI16I  Current Input (maximum) |
| Time to Detect Open Circuit Less Than 5 seconds                                                                             |
| Module Update Time  (1)                                                                                                     |
| Input Resolution NI16V  312 µV(2)                                                                                           |
| NI16I 640 nA                                                                                                                |
| Module Error Over Full                                                                                                      |
| Temperature Range 10V dc): ±0.1%                                                                                            |
| (0 ° C to 60 ° C, 32 ° F to 140 ° F)                                                                                        |
| Input Offset Drift with NI16V 90 µV/°C                                                                                      |
| Temperature NI16I 360 nA/°C                                                                                                 |
| Gain Drift with Temperature NI16V 15 ppm/°C                                                                                 |
| NI16I 20 ppm/°C                                                                                                             |
| Calibrated Accuracy at 25°C NI16V Better than 0.05% of range NI16I Better than 0.15% of range                               |
| (2) Depends on data mode: Engineering Units or Proportional Counts .                                                        |

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

17

18

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

Notes:

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

".

SLC 500™ Analog Input Modules

19

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P

@JO#VTQQE

".

SLC 500 is a trademark of Rockwell Automation.

Belden is a trademark of Belden, Inc.

Publication 1746-IN001B-US-P - December 1999

Supersedes Publication 1746-IN001A-US-P - September 1999

PN 40071-069-01(C)

© 2006 Rockwell Automation, Inc. Printed in Singapore

@JO#VTQQE

.

".